# IoTMyFavoritePlacesSubscription
My Favorites Places Subscription – An IOT Connected Home and Vehicle Project Implementation

Scenario:
User is driving the connected car in their locality. The user has set their favorite places and spots which are usually booked and need to be subscribed e.g a favorite restaurant, a favorite place to place to find their Zen like spa, massaging center, park, etc, also a meetup venue hall that is usually booked soon. These locations have limited availability and/or get booked fast. If the user is within the vicinity of this favorite locations, then the Cloud Service will track this. 
Technical Thought:
This is a big data scenario as car with constantly publish events about its location and favorite places processor will constantly consume and check and see if there is availability of a place. Hence, I used Microsoft Azure Event Hub Architecture since this architecture is built to satisfy these big data processing requirements with its processing and scalability excellence. We can add multiple IoT publishers to feed their data based on Different Device ID. Also, we can have multiple consumer groups, for the same data but a different scenario then above.

Cloud Components:
•	Azure Event Hub with 16 partitions and Single Consumer Group
•	Azure SQL Database to store Vehicle Information
•	Worker Roles – For Event Consumption and Event processing 
•	Stream Analytics (as a replacement to worker roles if processing is fairly simple)
•	A Cloud Service to Host all of the above.

Other Components: 
A Mock Console App to generate mock data which would actually be generated by IoT device.

Implementation Details:
•	All cloud components for this Namespace are hosted in the same geographical region for efficient performance.
•	A Console App Emits Events. 
•	Stream Analytics OR Worker Roles Consume and Process Events.
•	Worker Role Config File stores all the relevant Information like connection strings, Account Keys, Hub Name, Consumer Group Name that is required to authenticate and process requests. I have removed all the sensitive information. 
•	Finally, serialized data that is processed  de-serialized by worker role and inserted into Azure SQL database table
